Dr. Monica Godoy Tessitore is a Brazilian-American pianist and educator, performing as
both a soloist and chamber musician. Her academic background includes a B.M. from the
Hartt School of Music, an M.M. from the New England Conservatory, and a D.M.A. from
Boston University, complemented by additional studies at Escola de Musica de Brasilia,
Brazil. Her principal teachers were Luiz de Moura Castro, Tong Il-Han, and Veronica
Jochum. Throughout her career, she has appeared with numerous orchestras and
ensembles, including the Brasilia Symphony Orchestra, the Hartt Symphony Orchestra,
Orchestra de L’Empodá in Spain, and Orchestra of Indian Hill. As a chamber musician,
Monica participated in the Taos Chamber Music Festival and the International Music
Festival of Brasilia, winning numerous accolades for her performances. She served as coartistic
director and pianist for the former Indian Hill Chamber Players from 2004–2011,
presenting many important works from the piano chamber music repertoire. Monica has
also appeared in concert with distinguished ensembles and soloists, such as the Emerson
String Quartet, Walden Chamber Players, and Peter Stumpf (principal cellist of the Los
Angeles Philharmonic). Her international appearances include performances in Italy,
Spain, Portugal, Brazil, South Korea, and China, where she gave masterclasses at
Beijing’s Central Conservatory Middle School and performed with cellist Ning Tien. She
has also performed at the Musica no Museu in Rio de Janeiro and in the recital series at
Indian Hill Music and Assumption College. In 2015, Monica served as the Artistic Director
of the “International Piano Week” summer festival at Cushing Academy, which brought
together students, faculty, and guest artists from several countries. Her most recent CD —
an all-Schubert program — was recorded on the Bostonia label with guest artists Sergey
Antonov, cello, and Ellina Blinder, piano. In addition to Indian Hill, Monica is currently on
the faculty at Cushing Academy and Assumption College.