Dr. Heron Alvim Moreira owes his pianistic training mainly to the pianists Berenice Menegale (Brazil/Austria), Miguel Rosselini (Brazil/Germany), and Luiz Henrique Senise (Brazil/France). He also studied sporadically with Eduardo Hazan (Brazil/Austria), Frédéric Meinders (Netherlands), Peter Amstutz (USA), among others.
His academic training was carried out predominantly in Brazil: a Bachelor’s degree in piano from the School of Music at UFMG – a Specialization in Brazilian Music from the School of Music at UEMG, Minas Gerais – a Master’s in Interpretative Practices from the School of Music at UFRJ, Rio de Janeiro. Abroad, he attended the postgraduate program in performance at West Virginia State University’s College of Creative Arts, receiving the title of Doctor in Musical Arts (DMA) in Collaborative Piano.
He has participated in numerous national piano competitions, winning awards in several, such as “Cidade de Araçatuba”/SP, “Lorenzo Fernandes”/MG, and “Paulo Giovannini”/SP. He has taken part in several masterclasses in Brazil and abroad with renowned pianists such as Paul Badura-Skoda (Austria), Mirta Herrera (Italy), Saule Tatubaeva (Germany), Boris Berman (USA), and Gilberto Tinetti (Brazil).
He was part of the faculty at the State University of Minas Gerais for more than two decades, and since 1995 he has been the collaborative pianist at the School of Music of UFMG (Federal University of Minas Gerais).
Between 2016 and 2020, he was a scholar of the American government, during which he pursued postgraduate studies (DMA) at the universities of Washington D.C. (CUA) and West Virginia (WVU).
In 2019, he was the collaborative pianist in the performance workshops of the Vocal Area at the School of Music of West Virginia University (WVU). In that same year, he received the “The Valerie Canady Foundation” award, offered to WVU postgraduate students with an average above 80 percent.
In 2021, he defended his doctoral dissertation on the piano music of the Brazilian composer José de Almeida Penalva, available in the WVU Research Repository.
As a soloist and chamber musician, he has performed in important concert halls both in Brazil and abroad over many years, including venues such as Fundação de Educação Artística (MG/Brazil), Centro Cultural Unimed-BH Minas (MG/Brazil), Cushing Academy (MA/USA), Indian Hills Community College (Iowa/USA), University of Évora (Portugal), and Kent School (CT/USA), among others.
For more than thirty years, he has been part of the Duo Alvim-Canton alongside pianist Dr. Junia Canton, and more recently the Duo Pereira-Alvim (viola and piano) with his colleague Dr. Jessé Máximo Pereira, a viola professor at the School of Music of UFMG.