Praised by The Boston Globe for his “uncommon, almost singular
capability and integrity,” Steinway Artist Sergey Schepkin has concertized
worldwide, from the United States to Europe to East Asia to New Zealand.
He has performed at Boston’s Symphony Hall, Jordan Hall, Sanders
Theatre, Gardner Museum, and on the Boston Celebrity Series; at New
York’s Carnegie (Weill) Recital Hall, Alice Tully Hall, the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, and Bargemusic; at the Kennedy Center In Washington,
D.C.; on the LACMA and Maestro Foundation series in Los Angeles; at
the Rockport and Newport music festivals; the National Concert Hall in
Dublin; Hoam Art Hall in Seoul; and Sumida Triphony Hall in Tokyo,
among many other venues and series.
Mr. Schepkin’s vast repertoire includes solo, concerto, and chamber works
written over the past four hundred years. He is renowned for his
interpretations of keyboard works by Bach and was called “a formidable
Bach pianist” by The New York Times. An avid chamber player, he has
performed with many outstanding instrumentalists. He is also interested in
period keyboards and occasionally appears as harpsichordist and
clavichordist. Active as an educator, Mr. Schepkin has presented master
classes and lecture-recitals throughout the USA and abroad. He has taught
at Boston University, Boston Conservatory, and MIT. He is a Professor of
Piano at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and is on the piano
faculty at New England Conservatory’s School of Expanded Education in
Boston, where he is based. He is a recipient of numerous grants and
awards, including the Presser Foundation Award and the Maestro
Foundation Genius Grant. He has won prizes in several national and
international competitions including New Orleans (1999, first and Chopin
prizes) and Crown Princess Sonja of Norway (1988, third prize).
A naturalized American, Mr. Schepkin was born in St. Petersburg. He
studied with Alexandra Zhukovsky and Grigory Sokolov at St. Petersburg
Conservatory, graduating with highest honors in 1985, and with Russell
Sherman at New England Conservatory, where he earned an Artist
Diploma in 1992 and a Doctor of Musical Arts degree in 1999. In 1994–
98, he also studied French repertoire with Paul Doguereau.
Active as an entrepreneur, Mr. Schepkin launched Glissando Concert
Series, Boston in September 2018 and has presented many theme-based
concerts. His most encompassing project to date—a performance of the thirty-two Beethoven piano sonatas in ten programs to celebrate the
composer’s 250th anniversary—started live in the fall of 2019 and
continued virtually throughout the Covid pandemic. His Beethoven cycle
is now posted on YouTube, as are his videos of Bach’s Well-Tempered
Clavier I and of many Glissando concerts.